What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

w 7 (master) reflections $ git init
Initializes empty Git repository 

We need to put this directory under git

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

The files are kept under staging area before it is put in the repository.
It is an intermediate step. You can always remove the files from staging area using git reset <file_name> command.
** Value staging area offers, Keep commits small, one commit per logical change

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical
change?

We can use git diff / git diff id1 id2/ git diff --staged to check the differences in the files in working directory and staging area, differences in files with different commit ids and differences in files 
in staging area and commit ...this helps us to introduce one logical change per commit

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history
organized? How would branches help?

You may branch out for experimenting with new features ...
Later on if your experimenation work you can merge the changes with the 
main branch

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

With diagrams it helps us understand the commits reachable from that branch. 
It will help not to have commits that are not reachable from the branch. It helps 
plan the merging process.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in
the diagram the way we do?

The coins feature is now introduced to master branch. By moving master to the merged 
commit we will be able to trace all the commits in coins branch and therefore we 
can remove the coins branch now.

What are the pros and cons of Git's automatic merging vs. always doing merges
manually?

Automatic 

pros: helps save time
cons: May merge things and introduce bugs.

Manual

cons: It will be time consuming to do trivial work which a machine can do
pros: it will never introduce errors in merging on its own